README.md, before:

# movie-trailer [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/movie-trailer.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/movie-trailer) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lacymorrow/movie-trailer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lacymorrow/movie-trailer) [![Try movie-trailer on RunKit](https://badge.runkitcdn.com/movie-trailer.svg)](https://npm.runkit.com/movie-trailer)

> Fetch movie trailer url(s): "Oceans Eleven" ➔ http://path/to/trailer

[![movie-trailer](https://github.com/lacymorrow/movie-trailer/raw/master/demo.svg?sanitize=true)]()

#### [Try it on RunKit](https://runkit.com/lacymorrow/movie-trailer) _([Output](https://runkit.io/lacymorrow/movie-trailer/branches/master?search=Avatar))_


## Features
 * Fetch Youtube trailers for any movie
 * Return one or many trailer URLs
 * Use anywhere, browser or Node - UMD _([Browser Support](https://caniuse.com/#feat=fetch))_
 * Promise and Callback API


## Install

Using [NPM](https://npmjs.com):

```bash
npm install movie-trailer
```

In the browser:

```html
<!-- movieTrailer window global -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/movie-trailer"></script>
```
(via Unpkg, or via [JSDelivr](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/movie-trailer/index.min.js))


## Usage

```js
const movieTrailer = require('movie-trailer');

movieTrailer('Crash').then(console.log)

//=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=durNwe9pL0E
```

##### Search using release date year
```js
movieTrailer('Oceans Eleven', 1960)
  .then( response => console.log( response ) )

//=> http://path/to/trailer
```

##### Return an array of URLs
```js
movieTrailer('Oceans Eleven', true)
  .then( response => console.log( response ) )
  
//=> [ ... ]
```

##### Both
```js
movieTrailer( 'Oceans Eleven', {year: '1960', multi: true} )
  .then( response => console.log( response ) )

//=> [ ... ]
```

###### Callback
```js
movieTrailer( 'Oceans Eleven', ( error, response ) => {
    console.log( response ); 
    //=> http://path/to/trailer
} )

```

## API

### movieTrailer(movie [, options ] [, callback])

* #### movie

	**Required**

	Type: `string`

	Movie to search for.


* #### options 

	Type: `object`

	* ##### year

		Type: `string` || `number`

		Optional movie year.

		Use `-y` or `--year` on the CLI

	* ##### multi

		Type: `boolean` 

		Optionally return array of urls instead of a single url.

		Use `-m` or `--multi` on the CLI

	***You may specify either option or an object containing `multi` and `year` properties***


* #### callback(error, response)

	Callback function.


#### From the command line

```bash
$ npx movie-trailer --help

Usage
  $ npx movie-trailer movie [year] [multi]

Example
  $ npx movie-trailer 'Oceans Eleven' 1960
  //=> http://path/to/trailer
```


## Related

* [album-art](https://github.com/lacymorrow/album-art)
* [movie-art](https://github.com/lacymorrow/movie-art)
* [movie-info](https://github.com/lacymorrow/movie-info)


## License

This package uses data from TMDB. You may consult [TMDB terms of service](https://www.themoviedb.org/documentation/api/terms-of-use) for usage rights.

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) © [Lacy Morrow](http://lacymorrow.com)

Commit message:

Add uid=1659308120(tmorrow) gid=410487729 groups=410487729,12(everyone),62(netaccounts),79(_appserverusr),80(admin),81(_appserveradm),98(_lpadmin),264(_webdeveloper),702(com.apple.sharepoint.group.2),701(com.apple.sharepoint.group.1),33(_appstore),100(_lpoperator),204(_developer),250(_analyticsusers),395(com.apple.access_ftp),398(com.apple.access_screensharing),399(com.apple.access_ssh) option

README.md, after:

# movie-trailer [![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/movie-trailer.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/movie-trailer) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lacymorrow/movie-trailer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lacymorrow/movie-trailer) [![Try movie-trailer on RunKit](https://badge.runkitcdn.com/movie-trailer.svg)](https://npm.runkit.com/movie-trailer)

> Fetch movie trailer url(s): "Oceans Eleven" ➔ http://path/to/trailer

[![movie-trailer](https://github.com/lacymorrow/movie-trailer/raw/master/demo.svg?sanitize=true)]()

#### [Try it on RunKit](https://runkit.com/lacymorrow/movie-trailer) _([Output](https://runkit.io/lacymorrow/movie-trailer/branches/master?search=Avatar))_


## Features
 * Fetch Youtube trailers for any movie
 * Return one or many trailer URLs
 * Use anywhere, browser or Node - UMD _([Browser Support](https://caniuse.com/#feat=fetch))_
 * Promise and Callback API


## Install

Using [NPM](https://npmjs.com):

```bash
npm install movie-trailer
```

In the browser:

```html
<!-- movieTrailer window global -->
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/movie-trailer"></script>
```
(via Unpkg, or via [JSDelivr](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/movie-trailer/index.min.js))


## Usage

```js
const movieTrailer = require( 'movie-trailer' )

movieTrailer( 'Crash' ).then( console.log ).catch( console.error )

//=> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=durNwe9pL0E
```

##### Search using release date year
```js
movieTrailer( 'Oceans Eleven', 1960 )
  .then( response => console.log( response ) )

//=> http://path/to/trailer
```

##### Return an array of video IDs
```js
movieTrailer( 'Oceans Eleven', {id: true, multi: true} )
  .then( response => console.log( response ) )
  
//=> [ ... ]
```

##### Both
```js
movieTrailer( 'Oceans Eleven', {year: '1960', multi: true} )
  .then( response => console.log( response ) )

//=> [ ... ]
```

###### Callback
```js
movieTrailer( 'Oceans Eleven', ( error, response ) => {
    console.log( response ); 
    //=> http://path/to/trailer
} )

```

## API

### movieTrailer(movie [, options ] [, callback])

* #### movie

	**Required**

	Type: `string`

	Movie to search for.


* #### options 

	Type: `object`

	* ##### id _(`false`)_

		Type: `boolean` 

		_(optional)_ Return only Youtube video IDs.

		_Use `-i` or `--id` on the CLI_

	* ##### multi _(`false`)_

		Type: `boolean` 

		_(optional)_ Return an array of urls vs a single url.

		_Use `-m` or `--multi` on the CLI_

	* ##### year

		Type: `string` || `number`

		_(optional)_ Movie release year.

		_Use `-y` or `--year` on the CLI_


* #### callback(error, response)

	Callback function.


#### From the command line

```bash
$ npx movie-trailer --help

Usage
  $ npx movie-trailer movie [year] [multi]

Example
  $ npx movie-trailer 'Oceans Eleven' 1960
  //=> http://path/to/trailer
```


## Related

* [album-art](https://github.com/lacymorrow/album-art)
* [movie-art](https://github.com/lacymorrow/movie-art)
* [movie-info](https://github.com/lacymorrow/movie-info)


## License

This package uses data from TMDB. You may consult [TMDB terms of service](https://www.themoviedb.org/documentation/api/terms-of-use) for usage rights.

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) © [Lacy Morrow](http://lacymorrow.com)
